			     Release 3 at a Glance


This is Version 11, Release 3 of the X Window System from MIT.  Make sure that
you read the Release Notes (found in doc/releasenotes/) thoroughly before
modifying anything.  Look at the X top level manual page (X.man in this
directory) for general information on using X.


Configuration

This release has been compiled and run on the following configurations:

	Sun 3/280 running SunOS 3.4
	Sun 3/60 CG4, diskless running SunOS 3.4
	Microvax II GPX running 4.3bsd
	Microvax 3200 (Microvax III GPX) running Ultrix 3.0 (FT2)
	Microvax 2000 monochrome and color running Ultrix 3.0 (FT2)
	Microvax II Parallax running 4.3bsd
	Hewlett-Packard 9000/350 topcat running HP-UX 6.01
	Apple Macintosh II running A/UX
	IBM PC/RT Megapel and apa16 running ACIS-4.3
	Apollo DN3000 running DOMAIN/IX 9.7
	Tektronix 4310 running UTEK 

Since Makefiles are inherently unportable, this release uses a tool called
"imake" to convert machine-independent descriptions (called Imakefiles) of what
is to be build into machine-dependent Makefiles.  It is controlled by a variety
of configuration parameters found in the directory util/imake.includes/.  The
sample Makefiles included in the release are provided for bootstrapping and for
systems that are unable to run imake.  See the file util/imake.includes/README
for details on configuring X.

If you are going to build the release on more than one machine and have a
networked file system and symbolic links, you can save substantial amounts of
disk space by building a shadow link tree that points to the master sources. 
This has the added advantage of keeping your source tree as small as possible
since object files elsewhere.  See util/scripts/lndir.sh and move contrib out
of the way first.

If the default configuration is acceptable, all you need to do is follow the
directions in any server/ddx/*/README files that apply to you and type the
following from the top level directory:

	%  make World >& make.world

Note the capitalization of World.  Do not name the output log file "make.log"
as the build process deletes all files of that name. 

Some systems will give compiler warnings, but the core distribution should 
build without any significant errors.


Installation

Installation of this release is specifically designed to avoid conflict with
X10 systems to allow you to use both on a single machine.  Furthermore, the
installation is self contained in the following directories:

	/usr/include/X11	for <X11/*.h> include files
	/usr/bin/X11		executable programs
	/usr/lib/X11		libraries, configuration files, fonts, etc.

If your operating system supports symbolic links, you might want to create
links for these three directories pointing to another partition.

To install the release, type "make install >& make.install" (your redirection
symbol may be different) as root from the top level directory.


Since the "xinit" program (used to start the server and an initial terminal
emulator) assumes that the default server to run is named "X", you'll want to
create a symbolic link to the appropriate executable.  Thus, on a Sun you might
want to do

	# cd /usr/bin/X11
	# ln -s Xsun X

Site administrators are expected to provide user-friendly front ends to 
xinit for their users.

Check out the new xdm program.  It replaces xterm -L, is portable, very
configurable, is provides a much prettier user interface.


Testing it out

Finally, make sure that /usr/bin/X11 (or wherever you set the BINDIR
configuration parameter to) is in your path.  If everything is installed
correctly, typing "xinit" should automatically start up the server and an
initial xterm window.  If it doesn't, make sure that:

	1.  there is link, script, or program in /usr/bin/X11 called X that
	    starts the appropriate server for your system.

	2.  xterm is setuid to root, if necessary.

	3.  any site-specific fonts have been recompiled and mkfontdir
	    run on them; check any applications and resources files for old
	    X11 fonts (they have been moved to the user-contributed
	    distribution).

	4.  you follow any directions in the individual server/ddx 
	    directories.

	5.  you've read the Release Notes.



Enjoy.

	  "It's a window system named X, not a system named X Window"

